---
layout: default
title: API specification V0.2
---
<h1 class="govuk-heading-xl">API specification</h1>

<p class="govuk-body-l">
  Version 0.2 Draft
</p>

<hr class="govuk-section-break govuk-section-break--xl govuk-section-break--visible">

## Table of contents
{: .govuk-heading-l #table-of-contents}

<ol class="govuk-list govuk-list--number">
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#onboarding">Onboarding</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#technical-overview">Technical Overview</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#versioning">Versioning</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#testing">Testing</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#security">Security</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#sequencing">Sequencing</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#resource-guide">Resource Guide</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#permit-alterations">Permit Alterations</a></li>
  <li><a class="govuk-link" href="#user-and-organisation-registration">User and organisation registration</a></li>
</ol>

<hr class="govuk-section-break govuk-section-break--xl govuk-section-break--visible">

## Introduction
{: .govuk-heading-l #introduction}

This is the API guidance documentation for Street Manager, intended as a guide for developers integrating their systems to submit and retrieve information about street works. It is intended as a technical guide to be used with the API definition documentation and not a business change guide.
{: .govuk-body}

![System context diagram](images/system-context.png)

The Street Manager APIs are RESTful APIs to read/write data to the centralised Street Manager system following [GDS guidelines](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/gds-api-technical-and-data-standards), not a peer to peer solution.
{: .govuk-body}

### Updates
{: .govuk-heading-m}

The following is a list of significant changes since version 0.1 of this document:
{: .govuk-body}

<ol class="govuk-list govuk-list--bullet">
  <li>Exposed Street Lookup API, GeoJSON API and Reporting API
    for external use, see <em>Technical Overview</em></li>
  <li>Details added for Polling endpoint planned for Reporting API, see <em>Technical Overview</em></li>
  <li>Plans added for Notifications, see <em>Technical Overview</em></li>
  <li>Details added for User account roles and permissions, see <em>Security</em></li>
  <li>Additional features added to Works API
    <ul>
      <li>Works history</li>
      <li>Works comments</li>
      <li>Submit immediate permit</li>
      <li>Permit alterations</li>
      <li>Scheduled inspections</li>
      <li>Permit cancellation</li>
      <li>Submit PAA</li>
      <li>Progress PAA to PA</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ol>

<hr class="govuk-section-break govuk-section-break--xl govuk-section-break--visible">

## Onboarding
{: .govuk-heading-l #onboarding}

### Access to API pilot and sandbox environment

Contact [streetmanager\@dft.gov.uk]{.underline} for details on how to
join the API pilot and access to the sandbox environment.

### Organisation registration and access to production system

TBC

Technical Overview
==================

### Available APIs

Street Manager exposes a number of APIs to allow external applications
to retrieve and submit data.

#### Works API

*This API is exposed externally.*

The street manager works API allows promoters and highway authority
users to carry out a number of key workflows relevant to their
organization and role. We will cover each in detail but at a high level
they are:

**Promoter workflows:**

-   Submit permit application

-   Carry out a work

-   Create reinstatement

-   Action an FPN

-   Add comments to a works record

**Highway authority workflows:**

-   Assess permit application

-   Issue an inspection

-   Issue an FPN

-   Add comments to a works record

In order to ensure a user has the appropriate permissions to carry out
the above workflows they must authenticate to the API and acquire a JWT
to be used as part of their request.

#### Street Lookup API

*This API is exposed externally.*

The street manager street lookup API allows querying of NSG and ASD data
based on location and USRN. This function is only available as part of
submitting a permit for a work.

Details TBC

#### GeoJson API

*This API is exposed externally.*

The street manager GeoJson API exposes works spatial data to
authenticated users for use with mapping queries. Details TBC

#### Open data API

*This API is not yet available.*

Street Manager will support an API for Open Data users, details TBC.

#### Reporting API

*This API is exposed externally.*

The reporting API allows promoters and highway authority users to carry
out a number of data analysis and reporting workflows, allowing them to
retrieve data with configurable filtering, sorting and paging. This is
the backbone of our dashboard and list functionality. This API should be
used as a primary API to retrieve large volumes of data about your
works.

### Getting data from Street Manager

External systems integrating with Street Manager need to retrieve data
from the service to give their users the most up-to-date view on what is
going on with their works. Street Manager has a number of ways which you
can extract data from the service.

![Getting data](images/getting-data-1.png)

**Individual work data**

The Works API provides endpoints which give the full detail available
for individual Works and Permits. Use these endpoints to retrieve
details such as timings, comments, history and changes.

**Reporting**

You can use the Reporting API to extract data from the service both as
JSON and CSV format. These endpoints allow you to extract most Work
information efficiently for your organisation.

**Continuous** **Polling**

*Note: The polling endpoint is planned for private beta, details will be
added shortly.*

To find out what has changed to your Works recently, there is an API
endpoint available in the Reporting API which will return a list of
Works which have had changes with a defined time period. This allows
external integrators to poll Street Manager for changes and use the
results to retrieve further information from the Works or Reporting API.

**Notifications**

*Note: Notifications are currently in roadmap for Phase 3, not in
private beta.*

Street Manager will offer a Notification service which will send Push
notifications to organisations for updates to their Works to subscribed
systems. Organisations who wish to receive notifications need to expose
an HTTPS endpoint capable of receiving POST requests from the
Notification service containing the update event data as JSON.

Notifications cannot offer guaranteed delivery (network issues, service
downtime etc.) so to reconcile for missed Notifications you can use the
Polling API endpoint to validate you have received notifications for all
updated works.

Versioning
==========

*Note: API versioning will only be used for updates which change
existing API functions, potentially breaking existing integration and
will only be introduced after private beta.*

### Iteration and change

-   API updates to be released at fixed intervals -- potentially every 3
    > or 6 months (TBD)

-   Only the newly released version, and one version previous to it,
    > will be supported

-   API is versioned via request URL path

-   So you don't need to upgrade immediately, but you can only be one
    > version out

-   Release notes will be published for each release

### API Versioning

-   Versioning will be controlled via the URL path.

-   Versioning structure is TBC and will be researched during the pilot.

### Release Management

-   API users will be notified of changes/updates prior to them being
    > released (e.g. via DfT email, newsletter and GitHub).

-   Releases / versions will consider the prevention of breaking change,
    > with backwards compatibility being supported where appropriate.

-   Sandpit / pre-production environments will be made available to
    > support new releases.

Testing
=======

###

### Sandbox environment

A sandbox environment is available for authorised users to test their
API integration.

Details TBC

### Other testing

#### Generating test client and server stubs

It is possible to generate test clients and servers using the available
API documentation (Swagger JSON) which can be retrieved directly from
the exposed APIs in Sandbox environments. This allows isolated testing
of your integration without dependency on test environments and can
speed up development.

[[Swagger-codegen](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-codegen/)]{.underline}
supports generating client and server stubs for a variety of languages,
see here for details. Below is an example of generating Java client and
server stubs using the
[[Swagger-codegen]{.underline}](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-codegen/)
utility.

**Requires:**

-   Java (tested with openjdk version \"11.0.1\" 2018-10-16)

-   Maven for build

-   Swagger Codegen

#### Client

Generated with command:

swagger-codegen generate -i swagger.json -l java -o
./streetmanager-apiclient-java

The generated code for the template had a number of errors which
required manual corrections.

Corrections:

-   pom.xml - updated \<java.version\>1.7\</java.version\> to
    > \<java.version\>1.8\</java.version\> to support annotations

-   pom.xml - added dependency javax.annotation to replace deprecated
    > class

-   Find/Replace body\@ApiParam to body,\@ApiParam due to template error
    > on generated clients â€¢ Find/Replace new BigDecimal() to new
    > BigDecimal(0)due to template error on generated tests

To build:

mvn package

#### Server

Generated with command:

swagger-codegen generate -i swagger.json -l spring -o
./streetmanager-apistub-java-spring

The generated code for the template had a number of errors which
required manual corrections.

Corrections:

-   pom.xml - updated \<java.version\>1.7\</java.version\> to
    > \<java.version\>1.8\</java.version\> to support annotations

-   pom.xml - added dependencies for javax.xml.bind to replace
    > deprecated class

-   Find/Replace body\@ApiParam to body,\@ApiParam due to template error
    > on generated controllers

-   Find/Replace new BigDecimal() to new BigDecimal(0)due to template
    > error on generated tests To run:

mvn package

java -jar target/swagger-spring-1.0.0.jar \--server.port=8080

Security
========

###

### HTTPS

All Street Manager APIs are secured using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
v1.2 certificates signed by a standard certificate authority.

### Authentication and Authorization

All resource endpoints in the API with the exception of authentication
and health-checks, require a JWT to be passed in the \'token\' header of
the request. The JWT contains information about the user and allows them
to access routes, services, and resources that are permitted with that
token. Without it the request will be met with a 401 error response.

### User accounts and permissions

External systems integrating with Street Manager should use specific
credentials setup for API users. This is to allow Street Manager to
differentiate between Web UI user accounts and API users. User accounts
are assigned specific roles, such as *planner* and *admin*.

*Note: Currently systems who need to act as users associated with
multiple organisations, i.e. submitting permits for multiple utility
companies, need to use separate user accounts for each organisation.*

### JWT

Json Web Token (JWT) is an open standard for exchanging information
securely. The entities of street manager exchange information using JWTs
and resources of the street manager API require that a JWT be provided
as part of the request. This will be discussed in detail as part of the
security section.

### Resource

POST /authenticate

The authenticate endpoint takes a case sensitive username (email
address) and password, returning a JWT token if successful. **The JWT
token is valid for one hour.** Once the token has been acquired it can
be added to all protected resource requests made via swagger using the
Authorize button.

![authorise](images/authorise.png)

When clicked this will present an input to enter the token. Once
authorized then all protected resource requests made via swagger will
have the token header set.

![available authorisations](images/available-authorisations.png)

### Error responses

It\'s important to distinguish between authentication and authorization
error responses as it will help narrow down where an issue is occurring.

### Authentication Failed

{ \"message\": \"Authentication failed\", \"error\": { \"status\": 401 }

Authentication fails when the token provided in the request is invalid.
The token may have expired or the value set as the token was incorrect.
You may also see this error when calling the POST /authenticate endpoint
with invalid credentials I.e. wrong username or password.

### Access Restricted

{ \"message\": \"Access restricted\", \"error\": { \"status\": 401 }

The access restricted error indicates that although the token was valid,
the user does not have permissions to perform the desired action. This
error could arise for several reasons which will be listed in detail as
part of the resource section, but common triggers would be attempting to
manipulate entities (permit, reinstatement, inspection etc.) not related
to your organization.

### Rate limiting

To protect the system from denial of service attacks, repeated calls
made in a short period of time from a single IP source will receive 405
status responses. If you are receiving 405 responses ensure you are not
sending calls

Sequencing
==========

As detailed in the Technical Overview section, the reporting API drives
a large amount of data retrieval functionality whilst the street manager
API drives a lot of key user workflows e.g. submit permit, assess
permit, etc. These two APIs together form much of the common sequences a
user is likely to perform.

Below is an example of sequence calls used to submit and respond to a
permit application as well as how various actions affect the works
lifecycle. These endpoints are all available as part of the street
manager API and are discussed in more detail within the resource guide.

![sequence diagram](images/sequence-calls-used-to-submit-and-respond-to-a-permit-application.png)

The following actions can be performed at any subsequent stage in the
sequence from the stage they are available:

-   File upload

-   Add a comment

-   Add reinstatement

-   Add inspections

Whilst the above focuses much on data manipulation via the street
manager API, here is an example of some data retrieval calls that may be
performed alongside these actions via the reporting API.

-   **Permits awaiting assessment:** GET /permits?status=submitted

-   **Expiring interim reinstatements:** GET /sites?status=interim

-   **Disputed FPNs**: GET /fixed-penalty-notices?status=disputed

### Understanding the status of a work

As a permit progresses through the sequence above the permit status
changes. Knowing the various statuses of a permit allows you to filter
lists of permits related to your organization through the reporting API.
The statuses of a permit are:

-   **submitted:** The permit is awaiting assessment

-   **granted\_proposed:** The permit has been assessed as granted by an
    HA

-   **granted\_with\_changes:** The permit has been assessed as granted
    with changes by an HA

-   **refused:** The permit has been assessed as refused by an HA

-   **granted\_in\_progress:** The permit has been started by the
    promoter after being granted

-   **closed:** The permit has been stopped by the promoter

-   **cancelled:** The permit has been cancelled by the promoter

-   **deemed\_proposed:** The permit has been automatically deemed as it
    was not assessed before the deadline date

-   **deemed\_in\_progress**: The permit has been started by the
    promoter after being deemed

Note: PAA/Major submission will be included as part of this sequence.

###

### Viewing works and permits

#### Street Manager API

When a permit has been submitted and a works record exists both
promoters and HAs can view the works record via the GET work endpoint on
the street manager API. This endpoint requires you to provide the **work
reference number** which was supplied during the submission of the
permit application.

GET /works/{work reference number}

This contains information about all of the entities associated with the
work record, the properties of this response are:

-   **Active permit:** The currently active permit associated with the
    works. In the sequence above this would contain the permit awaiting
    assessment

-   **Sites:** Any reinstatement sites that have been added to the works
    (none initially)

-   **Inspections:** Any inspections that have been issued on the works
    (none initially)

-   **FPNs:** Any fixed penalty notices that have been issued on the
    works (none initially)

-   **Permits:** Summary of all permits that have been associated with
    that works (I.e. multiple permits)

It\'s also possible to retrieve only information about the permit itself
using the GET permit endpoint. This endpoint requires you to provide the
**permit reference number** which is returned in the response of the
permit application submission. As detailed in the submit permit
application section of the resource guide, the permit reference number
is simply the works reference number suffixed by an incrementing number
e.g. {WRN}-01 for the first permit added to that work.

GET /works/{work reference number}/permits/{permit reference number}

#### Reporting API

The reporting API permits endpoint will be the most useful way to see
all permits that are relevant to your organisation.

*Note: Reporting API data can be retrieved as CSV data to allow
exporting data to tools such as Excel for more complex reporting needs,
such as all permit details needed for Fee Reporting.*

For example, as an HA you can use the **status** property of a permit
indicates the current state it is in, for submitted permits that are
awaiting assessment the permit status will be \"submitted\".

GET /permits?status=submitted

The **status** query param can be changed to any of the values discussed
above to retrieve permits in any stage of the sequence. This is
discussed in more detail in the reporting API resource guide.

Promoters can use **status** values to find permits which the HA has
responded to, see the Street Manager API resource guide for more details
on Permit status values.

Resource Guide
==============

###

### Reporting API

As discussed in the sequencing section, the reporting API allows
promoters and HAs to query resource lists for their organization,
filtering them by various properties. The reporting API currently allows
users to retrieve the following:

-   Permits

-   Comments

-   Fixed penalty notices

-   Sites

Most endpoints on the reporting API are driven with pagination. This
means the following common query params are available for most
endpoints:

-   **Before**: cursor to filter pagination results backwards (I.e.
    retrieve everything before this item)

-   **After**: cursor to filter pagination results forwards (I.e.
    retrieve everything after this item) Each paginated response in the
    reporting API contains the following meta-data:

{

\"pagination\": {

\"page\_start\": 1,

\"total\_rows\": \"50\"

},

\"rows\": \[...\]

}

The page\_start and total\_rows properties indicate the current page of
results returned in the response, in the context of the total number of
available rows (records). The rows property contains the records for the
current page.

By default there are a maximum 25 rows returned per page and each record
in the rows array has a cursor property, which is that record\'s
placement in the context of the total result set. Therefore in the
example above, if you have 50 items total, with 25 items per page, to
get the next page of results would simply involve taking the last item
in the rows array, and using it\'s cursor value as the \'after\' query
param value. This would result in the next metadata response

containing rows 26-50. The reason we use cursor based paging is to
handle real time data. That is to say, the same items will not show up
on different pages even as items are inserted/removed from the database
in-between queries.

### Permits

#### View permits

As discussed in the sequencing section, the reporting API allows
promoters and HAs to query permits for their organization, filtering
them by various properties such as status or works reference number. As
well as this the reporting API allows users the retrieve count summary
information about permits.

### Get permits endpoint

/permits

The permits endpoint retrieves a list of permits associated with the
user. The endpoint allows configuration of results through the use of
the following query params:

-   **status**: The permit status I.e. submitted, granted

-   **query**: The work reference number associated with the permit
    > (partial match)

-   **sort\_column**: The property of the permit to order results by

-   **sort\_direction**: Ascending/descending

### Count permits endpoint

/permits/counts

The counts endpoint provides a total summary of permits grouped by their
status. The response contains:

-   Total refused applications

-   Total submitted applications

-   Total granted

-   Total in-progress permits

-   Total closed permits

**Comments**

#### View Comments

The reporting API allows users to view comments associated with their
organization.

#### Get comments endpoint

/comments

Retrieves a list of comments that have been added to any works record
associate with the currently authenticated user\'s organization.
Comments are added via the street manager API (see comments section) and
visible from this endpoint in the reporting API.

### **FPNs**

#### View Fixed Penalty Notices

The reporting API allows users to view FPNs associated with their
organization.

#### Get FPNs endpoint

/fixed-penalty-notices

Retrieves a list of FPNs that have been added to any works record
associate with the currently authenticated user\'s organization. FPNs
are issued via the street manager API (see FPN section). Similarly to
the permits endpoint, FPNs can be filtered by status. The status of an
FPN are:

-   **issued**: Issued by the HA

-   **accepted**: Accepted by the promoter

-   **paid**: Confirmed as paid by the HA

-   **paid\_discounted**: Confirmed as paid by the HA with a discount

-   **disputed**: Disputed by the promoter

-   **withdrawn**: Withdrawn by the HA

**Sites**

Street Manager API supports retrieving details on sites, details TBC.

### **Street Manager API**

#### Submit permit application

![Submit permit application](images/submit-permit-application.png)

As shown in the sequence, a promoter submits a permit application at
which point an HA can assess it. Both a promoter and HA can add comments
to the works record once it exists. Both users can upload files for
various workflows, but in the case of applying for a permit application,
a promoter may choose to upload a file as part of their application
(I.e. providing a traffic management plan). Files need to be uploaded
via the file upload endpoint before than can be used as part of other
requests, so often this endpoint is called first. See the **File
Upload** section of the resource guide for details.

It\'s important to clarify the technical relationship between a work and
a permit. When creating a permit for the first time, this will in effect
create a works record. A work can have multiple permits. You can create
a work and a permit at the same time, or you can create a permit against
an existing work. A work cannot exist without a permit.

There is also a concept of a work record\'s active permit, that is
simply the most recently added permit on that works record. In essence,
a work is a representation of all the permits, reinstatements, FPNs,
inspections etc. that have been added to a particular location by a
particular promoter.

#### Create work endpoint

POST /works

This endpoint takes all the information required to create a permit, as
well as some key identification information about the works record as a
whole.

#### Constraints

##### Work reference number

The works reference number provided must be unique in the context of our
system in order to create a new work.

##### Works coordinates

The works coordinates field expects a [[GeoJSON
geometry]{.underline}](http://geojson.org/) and must be a point, line
string or polygon.

{ \"type\": \"Point\", \"coordinates\": \[80000.00, 80000.00\] }

##### Promoter SWA code and highway authority SWA code

These are particularly important fields in the request. Currently only a
promoter can create a permit and works record so the promoter SWA code
provided in the request much match that of the user authenticated to the
system. This is determined by the token header of the request, which
contains the JWT. In effect this means the promoter can only add a work
or permit for their own organization.

All SWA codes are left-padded to 4 digits, so for example if the SWA
code of your promoter organization is 10, this should be entered as
\"0010\".

As a promoter, the HA SWA code you choose is the organization which will
be associated with the permit, and thus responsible for assessing the
permit. This HA will also be the only organization able to add
inspections or issue FPNs against the work record. Although generally
most information in the system is viewable by any organization, only the
HA and promoter responsible for the work can make actions against it.

### Get work endpoint

GET /works/{work reference number}

Once the work has been created it can be retrieved using the GET
endpoint, passing the work reference number that was used as part of the
create request.

### Create permit endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/permits

A work can have multiple permits associated with it so it possible to
add a new permit to an existing works. This endpoint requires some of
the same fields as the create work request but much of the information
from the first permit will be used as the value for additional permits,
and so only a subset of information is required.

#### Constraints

It\'s not possible to add an additional permit to an existing works,
unless the work is in an inactive state. The state of the work is
derived by the status of the most recently added permit. So in short, an
additional permit can only be added to a work if the most recently added
permit on the existing works record has a status of closed, cancelled or
refused.

### Get permit endpoint

GET /works/{work reference number}/permits/{permit reference number}

Once an additional permit has been added to an existing works record, it
can be retrieved using the work and permit reference number. The permit
reference number is simply the works reference number suffixed by an
incrementing number e.g. {WRN}-01 for the first permit added to that
work.

#### Assess permit application

![Assess permit application](images/assess-permit-application.png)

As shown in the sequence diagram, once a permit application has been
submitted an HA user can provide an assessment decision for the permit.
There are technically 4 assessment decision options:

-   Granted

-   Granted with changes

-   Refused

-   Deemed

*Note: Available options may change as functionality is updated/added*

Permits are deemed automatically when they exceed their response date,
and granted with changes is a future function so these two options
aren\'t explicitly supported as manually entry.

#### Update status endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/permits/{permit reference
number}/status

Assessing a permit application is achieved through this endpoint by
providing an assessment status. This also changes the overall permit
status. Once a permit has been assessed it cannot be assessed again.

#### Constraints

As mentioned in the submit permit application section, a permit can only
be assessed by the highway authority that the permit was submitted to.
This means HA users can only assess permits on work records they are
associated with. If the permit was submitted to a different
organization, they will not be able to assess it. Furthermore promoters
cannot assess their own permits.

#### On site (start/stop works)

#### On site

![On site](images/on-site.png)

Once a permit has been submitted and granted by an HA, the promoter
which raised the permit is able to:

-   Start a work

-   Stop a work

-   Provide inspection units

-   Indicate whether or not an excavation was carried out

These actions control various stages of the works record life cycle as
per the sequence diagram above.

#### Start work endpoint

PUT /works/{work reference number}/start

When a permit is submitted initially, a proposed start and end date for
the work must be provided. The start endpoint is then used to provide
the date the work has actually began, and thus officially starting the
work.

By setting an actual start date, the active permit\'s status will change
to in-progress. This allows promoter organization users to add
reinstatements against the works record if an excavation was carried out
and it also allows highway authority users to add inspections, which
will be covered in separate sections.

#### Constraints

The date provided must be in the past, you can\'t set an actual start
date ahead of time. You can only start a work if the active permit has
been granted. You can only provide an actual start date once, afterwards
it cannot be changed.

###

### Stop work endpoint

PUT /works/{work reference number}/stop

When a permit is submitted initially, a proposed start and end date for
the work must be provided. The stop endpoint is then used to provide the
date the work has actually ended, and thus officially stopping the work.

By setting an actual stop date via this endpoint, the active permit\'s
status will change to closed. It\'s still possible to add reinstatements
and inspections to closed works as they may be added retrospectively.

#### Constraints

The date provided must be in the past, you can\'t set an actual stop
date ahead of time. You can only stop a work if the active permit is in
progress I.e. a start date has been provided. You can only provide an
actual stop date once, afterwards it cannot be changed. The actual stop
date must be after the actual start date.

###

### Excavation carried out endpoint

PUT /works/{work reference number}/excavation

When a permit is submitted initially the excavation property indicates
whether or not an excavation will need to be carried out as part of the
work. Similar to proposed start and stop, this endpoint indicates
whether or not an excavation was *actually* carried out.

Marking an excavation was carried out on an in-progress work record
allows promoters to add reinstatements to that works record, which will
be covered in a separate section.

#### Constraints

You can only make this request if the permit is in-progress or closed.
You can only set whether or not an excavation was carried out once,
afterwards it cannot be changed.

###

### Inspection units endpoint

PUT /works/{work reference number}/inspection-units

Once a permit is in progress and an excavation has been carried out, a
promoter can log the inspection units associated with the currently
active permit.

#### Constraints

You can only make this request if the permit is in-progress or closed.
You can only provide inspection-units if a reinstatement currently
exists on the works record, which will cover in a separate section.

#### Reinstatements

#### Add reinstatements

![Add reinstatements](images/add-reinstatements.png)

As shown in the sequence diagram, once the a work has been started by
the promoter and an excavation was carried out, then a promoter can add
reinstatements and sites. A promoter can continue to create and view
these even after the work has been stopped and completed, as they made
need to do this retrospectively.

In a similar vein to the relationship between a works and a permit,
it\'s important to clarify the technical relationship between a site and
a reinstatement. When creating a reinstatement for the first time, this
will in effect create a site record. A site can have multiple
reinstatement. You can create a site and a reinstatement at the same
time, or you can create a reinstatement against an existing site. A site
cannot exist without a reinstatement.

A site is a representation of all the reinstatements carried out at a
particular location but the most recently added reinstatement reflects
the sites properties.

### Create site endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/sites

This endpoint takes all the information required to create a
reinstatement, a successful request will create a site with an
associated reinstatement.

#### Constraints

##### Reinstatement coordinates

The reinstatement coordinates field expects a [[GeoJSON
geometry]{.underline}](http://geojson.org/) and must be a point, line
string or polygon.

{ \"type\": \"Point\", \"coordinates\": \[80000.00, 80000.00\] }

### Get site endpoint

GET /works/{work reference number}/sites/{site id}

Once a site has been created it can be retrieved using the GET endpoint,
passing the site id which is returned as part of the create request.

###

### Create reinstatement endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/sites/{site id}/reinstatements

A site can have multiple reinstatements associated with it so it is
possible to add a new reinstatement to an existing site. This endpoint
requires all of the same fields as the create site request.

#### Constraints

A reinstatement cannot be added before the actual start date of a work.
A reinstatement can be interim or permanent. If the most recently added
reinstatement on a site is interim, then a new permit is required to be
granted and started before that site can be made permanent.

#### Inspections

#### Add inspections

![Add inspections](images/add-inspections.png)

As shown in the sequence diagram above, once a work has been started
then an HA can issue an inspection. Similar to reinstatements, this can
be done even after the works has been stopped and completed, in cases
where the HA needs to do this retrospectively.

There are several inspection outcome types supported:

-   Passed

-   Unable to complete

-   Failed standard

-   Failed 2 hour â€¢ Failed 4 hour

When issuing a failed inspection it\'s also possible to upload
supporting evidence. This requires using the file upload flow. See the
File Upload section of the resource guide for details.

### Create inspection endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/inspections

Creating an inspection will return a inspection reference number which
can be used to retrieve an individual inspection via the GET endpoint
provided. The inspection reference number is simply the works reference
number suffixed by an incrementing number e.g. {WRN}-INSP-01 for the
first inspection added to that work.

#### Get inspection endpoint

GET /works/{work reference number}/inspections/{inspection reference
number}

#### FPNs

#### Issue a FPN (HA only)

An HA user can issue a fixed penalty notice against the work record at
any point in the works life cycle. Promoters can view and dispute the
FPN but they cannot issue their own. HA users may upload evidence to
support their FPN but the workflow for this is explained in the file
upload section. There are several statuses an FPN can have:

-   Issued

-   Accepted

-   Paid

-   Paid (discounted)

-   Disputed

-   Withdrawn

### Create FPN endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/fixed-penalty-notices

Creating a FPN will return a FPN reference number which can be used to
retrieve the individual FPN via the GET endpoint provided. The FPN
reference number is simply the works reference number suffixed by an
incrementing number e.g. {WRN}-FPN-01 for the first FPN added to that
work.

### Get FPN endpoint

GET /works/{work reference number}/fixed-penalty-notices/{FPN reference
number}

### Action FPN endpoint

PUT /works/{work reference number}/fixed-penalty-notices/{FPN reference
number}/status

Both a promoter and HA can action FPNs in different way. When an FPN is
created by the HA it is considered issued. A promoter can accept or
dispute FPNs, whilst an HA officer can mark an FPN as withdrawn or paid.

#### File Upload

#### File upload

Several flows discussed in the previous sections allow users to add
files as part of their request:

-   **Submit permit application:** planners can upload traffic
    > management plans

-   **Add reinstatement:** planners can upload evidence of the
    > reinstatement

-   **Issue an inspection:** HA users can upload evidence as part of
    > issuing failed inspection

-   **Issue a fixed penalty notice:** HA users can upload evidence as
    > part of issuing an FPN

Uploading a file is achieved through the file upload endpoint. This
endpoint is required as part of all the above flows as any files that
the user wishes to associate with the above requests must first be
uploaded using this endpoint. As mentioned in the Sequencing section,
you can upload files at any point in the works lifecycle.

*Note: The sequence for uploading files may change to allow drafting
permits before uploading files.*

### Upload file endpoint

POST /files

Once a file has been uploaded the response will contain a file ID. This
is the unique identifier of the file in our system. Behind the scenes
the file will be uploaded to S3 and virus scanned. This file ID can then
be provided in the requests of the flows discussed above. Once a valid
file ID is provided in the requests of the above flows, the file is then
associated with the relevant entity.

### Get file endpoint

GET /files/{file ID}

Retrieves the file using the file ID.

#### Constraints

As the file is virus scanned at the point of upload, it is not
immediately available for retrieval. It\'s possible that this endpoint
could return a file not found error response if the file has not yet
been virus scanned and marked as safe or if the file was deemed unsafe
and removed from the system.

Typically the virus scanning process will only take a few seconds.

### Delete file endpoint

DELETE /files/{file ID}

Deletes a file from the system.

#### Constraints

You cannot remove a file that\'s been linked to an entity. As soon as
the file id is used as part of a create
permit/reinstatement/FPN/inspection request then it is considered linked
to that entity.

### Comments

#### Add comment

Both promoter and highway authority users can add comments to a works
record. When a comment is added to a works record it will be returned as
part of the get works response.

### Create comment endpoint

POST /works/{work reference number}/comments

Add a comment to a work record.

#### View comments

The comments on an individual work record can be viewed as part of that
work\'s history. This endpoint also returns audit events such as when a
permit is assessed, started etc. You can distinguish history items as
audits or comments by the **isComment** property.

### History endpoint

GET /works/{work reference number}/history

As well as viewing comments on a work record level, you can also call
the reporting API comments endpoint to retrieve all comments associated
with your users organization. See the Reporting API Comments section of
the resource guide.

Permit Alterations
==================

API will support submitting permit alterations, details and sequencing
TBC.

User and organisation registration
==================================

API will support user and organisation registration, details and
sequencing TBC.